                   GDMA version 2.2.11

The GDMA program carries out distributed multipole analysis of
wavefunctions calculated by the Gaussian system of programs, using the
formatted checkpoint files that they produce. The result is a set of
multipole moments at sites defined by the user (usually at the
positions of the atomic nuclei) which, given an accurate wavefunction,
provide an accurate description of the electrostatic field of the
molecule. Version 2 handles diffuse functions more satisfactorily than
version 1, giving results which converge rapidly to steady values as
the basis set is improved. It is not as fast, typically requiring
minutes of cpu time, or even an hour or two for large molecules,
rather than a few seconds, but it is still fast compared with the
wavefunction calculation. The original algorithm, as used in version
1, is still available in version 2, and is very much faster than
the new version, but it is not recommended for use with large basis
sets containing very diffuse functions. More details are in A. J.
Stone, J. Chem Theory Comp. (2005) 1, 1128-1132.


To compile the program you will need a Fortran90 compiler. The
gfortran compiler is used by default. Change to the main gdma-2.2.11
directory, check that the settings in the Makefile are appropriate for
your compiler, and run
        make
If the compilation is successful, the new executable will be in
gdma-2.2.11/bin/gdma.

Use
        make test
to run the test files through the program. The test script checks
whether the output is correct, and leaves a report in
gdma-2.2.11/examples/test.log. If all is well, 
        make install
will put the executable in /usr/local/bin. You will probably have to
be root to do that. You can change the definition of INSTALL_DIR in the
Makefile if necessary, for example to install the executable in your
personal bin directory.

The detailed documentation is in the file doc/manual.pdf.

The program is distributed under the GNU General Public Licence (GPL).
See the file doc/gpl-2.0.pdf for full details.


In case of difficulty please email Anthony Stone, ajs1@cam.ac.uk.


